---
title: INVEST's Partnerships
sort: 6
---

# More on INVEST’s Partnerships

The wider aim of the program corresponds clearly with the long-term strategic aims of the Government of Afghanistan (GIRoA). The broad vision of the GIRoA’s Afghan National Development Strategy (ANDS) is to ensure that Afghanistan meets all of its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2020. Within ANDS, INVEST-in-Kandahar supports Sector Four (Education): *Government's goal is to significantly improve the quality of, and promote equitable access to, education, skills development and other social services in order to re-invigorate Afghanistan's human capital, reduce poverty and facilitate economic growth.*

Mercy Corps implements in partnership with relevant government ministries – the provincial departments of both the Ministry of Education (MoE) and Ministry of Labor (MOLSAMD) contribute to INVEST via provision of locations for MC to establish VTCs. In alignment with GIRoA initiatives, the MoE is empowered to design and oversee formal TVET courses from grades 10 to 14, consisting of 2-3 year courses for students coming from secondary education. The MoE has recently established a national TVET steering committee that is tasked with driving the formalization of the TVET sector. While Mercy Corps will continue to support MoE’s efforts, it recognizes that the program is primarily aimed at providing shorter-term courses targeted to individuals who have had limited access to formal education. Delivery of these courses are currently the responsibility of the MoLSAMD and NSDP, and therefore Mercy Corps is currently exploring ways to work more closely with these government departments, both centrally and provincially, to ensure that the curricula, student demographic and the nature of INVEST remain closely aligned with government strategy while exploring ways to facilitate the government to take increasing ownership of course delivery to enable a sustainable exit . In addition, Mercy Corps coordinates with the UN IDP Taskforce in Kandahar.

As highlighted by the market assessment, jobs and entrepreneurship opportunities in Kandahar are secured through word of mouth from family, friends and direct contacts leaving IDPs and returnees at an acute disadvantage. INVEST-in-Kandahar will facilitate up to 48 (1 per-center, per-term) Ready to Earn Clubs for graduates over the life of the project. Students will not be required to attend but based on Mercy Corps experience with the INVEST program the rate of participation will increase after the first cycle once they understand the value of the Clubs from peers. The Clubs will serve as a centralized structure for youth to explore their options related to both formal employment as well as entrepreneurship, and provide a unique platform for them to build their social capital.

Sessions in the RECs follow two main curricula which build business and entrepreneurial skills, leadership skills, encourage peer-to-peer mentoring and emotional support, and support networking with the private sector. Also included are ‘guest speaker’ sessions with key market actors, further specialized vocational ‘trouble-shooting’ with a master craftsmen, and a Gender-Based Violence module. Innovative approaches have been trialed to engage with and better understand INVEST participants, including a unique participatory photography project and it is planned to continue such adaptations and innovations in the RECs to identify best approaches for meeting the needs of young people trying to embark upon a new career. Participants will begin to attend REC sessions during the final 6 weeks of their vocational course, and will be encouraged to return to the VTC on a fixed monthly basis to meet with their class and MC’s ‘business consultancy team’; this will include the master craftsman for their trade along with MC coordinators who will specialize in acting as a resource for participants, both in terms of knowledge about the market, and ability to facilitate connections between graduates and sources of support and opportunity.
