---
title: How Do the VTCs Work?
sort: 3
---

# How Do the VTCs Work?

The VTCs deliver short courses (3 months or 6 months, 2 hours x 6 days/week) for 7,500 students. Subjects are those for which skills were found to be in demand in the local market, and include mobile phone repair, plumbing, wiring, embroidery and tailoring. Mercy Corps has learned from its work in Helmand that students that have limited experience with a classroom setting prefer classes that are of short duration, practical and intensive. This furthermore recognizes the importance of providing education opportunities that are adaptive to the familial and financial obligations that constrain the majority of Afghan returnees. Graduates are linked to the market in part through their instructors who are themselves master craftsmen and successful business owners in their specific trade . In addition to vocational training, graduates have the opportunity to participate in Ready to Earn Clubs (RECs); these clubs are built on Mercy Corps’ experience which has led us to go beyond traditional livelihood programming, recognizing that young people need support beyond just technical skills to successfully enter the market and to be productive members of society.

Young people – particularly those growing up in a context of violent instability and uncertainty – also need access to opportunity, knowledge of how to make the most of that opportunity, and of what support exists for them in the local environment. The RECs represent a more holistic approach to the needs of the target population by providing support in business skills and basic financial management, in addition to transferable skills which have a demonstrated positive influence on employment and more explicit links to market actors. Importantly, RECs also offer a continued sense of community for INVEST participants, a supportive social environment in which graduates can come together to collaborate, support each other in their new ventures, and share experiences.

Student recruitment occurs in partnership with entities in Kandahar that register IDPs and returnees, the Department of Women’s Affairs and other NGO actors operating in Kandahar. In addition, Mercy Corps Pakistan’s programming in Quetta has been working on vocational training with Afghan Refugees for many years and acts as a cross-border referral system for Afghan refugees seeking to become returnees to their provinces of origin in Kandahar and Helmand. 

INVEST is built upon community trust and mutual desire for sustainable solutions. Now that the value of the program has been clearly established, participants have started to pay fees for their training course. Different approaches are also being trialed to begin to pave the way for a fully cost recoverable training mechanism to be left behind once the donor funded program comes to an end.
