---
title: Target Demographic
sort: 2
---

# Who's INVEST’s Target Demographic?
The target population of INVEST-in-Kandahar is Afghan returnees and IDPs and vulnerable host community members ages 15 to 35 based in and around Kandahar City and the three neighboring districts of Dand, Daman, Arghandab and Spin Boldak. Kandahar province has a population of 1.1 million with a 7.3% average literacy rate for those over 16 years old, significantly lower than the national average of 25%. The female literacy rate is even lower at just 1.3% for Kandahar compared to the national average of 11.4%. Comprehensive official statistics on the number of complaints of violence against women in Afghanistan are not available according to UNHCR, but it is understood that gender based violence exists in Kandahar at relatively high rates but that most incidents are unreported.

Opportunities available to this demographic are very limited due to the political and economic instability in Southern Afghanistan. IDPs and returnees living in and around Kandahar City include unemployed men, women and children, few of whom have any formal education, or current access to school. Beneficiaries will be selected through referral of IDP and returnee serving organizations, local community leaders and provincial level stakeholders. Mercy Corps prioritizes: widows, illiterate and semi-literate returnees, heads of households without working dependents (prioritizing female headed households), unemployed or underemployed youth, migrants to urban Kandahar, and those that have been displaced. We also allocate at least 5% of class placements to people with disabilities.

INVEST-in-Kandahar supported TVET courses are delivered by local master craftsmen and are practical and pragmatic to accommodate literacy levels; participation in INVEST offers both formal qualifications and enhanced life skills. The scale of the program allows for a large numbers of trainees diluting issues such as nepotism, patronage and preferential status within the IDP and returnee communities. Students are recommended and sponsored by responsible and acknowledged leaders in the community who then support the students in their future endeavors.
